All right, now,
a little written content here.
So let's talk about declaration files.
These are those .d.ts files.
They contain no runnable code,
no JavaScript.
I'm just gonna pull one up so that we can
look at it, it'll be the one that we built
together, chat-stdlib, dist.
We'll go with this beta one, and
I'll get rid of that and this.
So this is interesting, right?
We're saying, there's this function thing.
There's a function, but
there's no function body.
In fact, I'd be yelled at,
I'm not allowed to have something in here,
like console.log, cannot do it.
This is an implementation.
Implementations are not
allowed in ambient contexts.
So we would call declaration
files ambient types,
it just means it's just
the type information.
Now, why this distinction?
Why are we saying these are not
exactly the same thing or
not always the same thing?
You could go into this src file,
this ts file, and
you could do something like this.
No, this is easier.
Just making something
interesting that proves,
did I have to export here?
Yep, okay, and now I could do window.my,
It's not gonna do that for me.
Sorry, I have to do it a different way.
So we're taking advantage of open
interfaces here, and we're saying,
I wanna add something to window
called mySpecialProperty.
So we've used an open interface
on window here, and look,
I can hover over this, and
mySpecialProperty is in here.
This here we would also
describe as an ambient context.
So eslint is objecting before Typescript
even gets a chance to start working on
these things.
But these are also ambient types,
they're also declaration space.
I'll call this implementation space,
where you can actually have
assignments of variables,
give them values,
they're not holding a value.
Now, part of what's
confusing about this is,
I'll leave this in common to that just so
you can find it later.
Part of what's confusing is you can
end up with things in here that
kind of look value-ish.
You could do this.
Something like that.
Well, how about this?
Am I allowed to do that?
Okay, I can't do that either.
Interesting, I could do it
with the namespace, but
part of what takes a little
bit of getting used to is
what you're allowed to do in
this space and what you're not.
So you can have imports,
you can have exports.
When you're declaring a class here,
it looks like you're declaring a class
similar to if we were to look
at the source code here, right?
We've still got class Deferred and
we've got all of these fields, and
they look very similar.
But you can have a constructor here,
you're just simply defining that I have
a class, there's an interface stacked on
top of it that represents an instance of
the class, it's just the type information.
Sorry, I wanna try one more thing.
That looks like an assignment, doesn't it?
Sorry, this is what I was
trying to recall earlier.
It's not, though,
it's just saying foo is of type 6,
it's literally the same thing as this.
You can just do things with literal
types that way for some reason.
So you can't have statements,
only expressions.
You can't have anything reassignable.
I don't think you can do that.
No, you can, was wrong there.
And, One of the things you have to be
careful of, it's manually authoring these.
Sometimes you have no other choice,
if you're working
with a JavaScript library that has
no types associated with it yet,
odds are you'll have
to write one of these.
But it is far better to have one that's
sort of generated from TypeScript code,
it just ensures that there's
parody between the two things.
Speaking of manually written declaration
files being a tough thing to maintain,
let's talk about community written types.
So there's a git repo
called DefinitelyTyped.
Okay, so here's DefinitelyTyped, and
let's look at this type's folder.
I wonder whether GitHub
can handle this now.
Sorry, it truncated it to 1000 files,
which it means
folders in this context, and
it had to drop 7,723 folders.
And if we look down here, let's see
if we can find something interesting.
Alt, here's angular, anchor-js.
There's a lot of different types here.
Await-promises, autoprefixer, babel-core.
Just looking for something that's gonna be
a little bit more familiar to everybody.
>> Is this the repo when
you install @types?
>> It is absolutely that repo.
So let me go to this one, and then I'm
just gonna manually change the URL.
We're gonna look at Reacts types.
This is gonna be a little bit of,
gonna be scary.
Not trying to jump scare anyone.
So here's your warning.
But if we look at these,
these are handwritten.
And you can see here,
here's a namespace for React.
Here's this type called ElementType.
So here's some utility types that
they've built, a RefObject, a LegacyRef,
ElementRef, ReactElement, right?
There's some JSX-related types in here.
These are meant to mirror the things
that you get from React.js,
a React child that feels like
it's probably a member of
the children object,
a fragment, a React node.
Look at all these,
you can render a string or ReactElement.
This is probably something
that you can spit out in JSX,
something you could
return from an element.
createFactory, so now we're getting into
functions that you can use in React.
createElement, this is the way
you bootstrap your React app,
but they're just function declarations.
And this, if we hit Blame,
please don't make me a liar, React.
But if this is most definitely typed
packages, it's written by tons and
tons of different people.
So you've got a bunch of
community contributors here,
individually authoring different lines,
making different fixes.
They're doing their best to try to keep
this lined up with the React library.
When you have @types/react,
this is what you're getting.
You're getting these declaration files,
and
there's a lot of hard work that goes
into these to keep them lined up.
So look here,
we've got even React v16, v17.
V15 is in there.
And if we look at their package.json,
they might even have types versions.
Let's check that out if it's here,
maybe not.
Owners, there it is.
So here, this is a field you can
add to a package.json, that says,
depending on which TypeScript
compiler version you're using,
I have a different declaration file for
you.
I can have a legacy file that works for
TypeScript 3,
and a very modern one that works for
TypeScript 5.
And this is a big important part of making
sure that this package here is gonna
work for a wide range of people, right?
You still need to get those bug fixes in.
But it's very manual work,
where let's see if we look at V17,
they might have a bunch of
different versions in there.
They've structured this one
a little bit differently, but yeah,
here's the ts5.0 ones.
It's common to see in these
that they'll sort of import
the legacy types as a starting point and
then add new stuff on top of it.
So there's import React from ./,
where's the index?
Do we just look at this?
PropTypes, yeah,
these are in all likelihood importing.
It looks like we're consuming it from
this library, from prop-types, but
this is just types in this file.
Where this is really coming from in
all likelihood is @types/prop-types,
which is another folder in this project,
it's this one.
So you're importing PropTypes, but
it's just the types you're dealing with
cuz that's all that can be
in these declaration files.
So why am I bothering to
tell you about these?
Well, first off, it's a great project,
it's managed by the TypeScript core team.
And when I say manage,
they built a lot of tooling
around it to make sure that
things get published right away.
And they even have a policy,
where if somebody submits
a change to the types,
the people who are listed as owners,
which is gonna be up at
the top of their index file.
Maybe they have a different,
it's in the package.json now.
Sorry, it's been a while
since I contributed to this.
So if I submitted a change to types here,
these three people would get mentioned
in a GitHub comment on the poll request.
And they'd have a few days to come in and
either provide feedback saying,
I want changes, or this looks good, but
it defaults to letting changes go through.
It seems a little scary and
it's a little bit, but
trust that the types that lots and lots of
people use have a long list of owners and
they know how this works and
they'll respond.
But it also means that
if you find a library,
like type definitions that are abandoned,
you're not at a dead end.
You can add yourself as an owner
if you want to take them over,
and you can start to help
maintain these things.
There's another challenge
around definitely typed, and
it has to do with versioning.
So if you look at the versions
of the @types packages,
you may have noticed this, even today
as we were installing a couple of them.
Version number of @types package matches
version number of the thing, the types
describe, which makes it very easy to
know which thing to install, right?
You want those numbers to line up.
We would call that lockstep versioning,
right?
A new patch release comes out in Facebook,
sorry, in React,
@type/react releases another version
of the types to include that.
But the thing is,
sometimes the types themselves break, or
they introduce breakage, or they drop
support for old compiler versions.
And my argument here is we end
up with more bits of information
than you can capture in a semantic
versioning number here.
You need to truly capture that in order
to really communicate risk, right?
The types, there are bug fixes
that are specific to the types.
And every time those are merged, a release
is automatically cut, a number ticks up.
And so
one thing I'd suggest you be careful with,
if you hit errors relating to
definitely typed packages,
just understand that this is how it works.
And that sometimes big changes to
those @types packages can happen.
They'll drop support for
an older compiler version.
But it'll look just
like a patch release or
a middle-digit release because they
really prioritize lining up with version
numbers of the library that they describe
over, communicating breaking and
non-breaking changes
within the @types package.
It's a hard problem to solve,
you'd need at least
a five component number
to really communicate.
It's like major of library,
minor of library,
major of types, minor of types,
something like that.